Mudasser  Zaheer
5502 Pecan Hollow Dr.
Missouri City, Texas 77459
United States
1 832 5359198
mudasser.zaheer@gmail.com

Career History

Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HP Cloud   (01/2015 - Present)
Houston, TX, Texas
Senior Director, Product and Company-wide Adoption
Leading Company-wide implementation of Open Source Cloud technologies for a Fortune 50 company with 200K+ employees and 7K+ internal developers.
Scope of the program includes KVM (VMWare alternative), Openstack (IaaS), Cloud Foundry (PaaS), Docker and other Container ecosystems. Also in scope are introduction of transformational concepts like Cloud Native Development, DevOps, CI/CD and autonomic computing.
Grassroots adoption strategies like developer evangelism, hackathons and POC projects etc.
Alignment at the leadership level with partner organizations to ensure sponsorship of activities
Add value to product lifecycle by helping define and validate product roadmaps from a broad range of POVs and by sharing tools and methods developed by practitioners of the products
Job One, beta and early adoption for new features and releases
Developing and telling the internal adoption story at Customer briefings and industry events.


Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Enterprise Services   (01/2012 - 01/2015)
Houston, TX, Texas
Director Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing & Global Transformation Executive
Simultaneously perform Executive (Director IT Outsourcing Delivery), Consultative/Critical Intervention (Global Transformation Executive) and Technical (Leader Global Transformation Tools, Methods & Architecture) roles.
Directed initiative to incorporate HP’s Cloud Offerings into Global Transformation Practice. This included the design and deployment of the first Managed Private Cloud worldwide; the first Virtual Private Cloud cell in Iberia; and the migration of several large organizations including EDF (France Utility) and the Government of Cataluña from traditional Data Centers to Cloud.
Chosen from 1,700+ contenders to showcase and present our innovations at Tech Con 2014.
Led the development of the Data Center Migration Planning and Management methodology and toolkit that is the engine for the on-demand Factories that are spun up to execute massive scale migrations to Cloud like Deutsche Bank with 37,000 VMs.
Architected tools, methods and best practices for the Discovery of all hardware, software and business application configuration items that collectively constitute a typical customer’s IT environment. Certified as the enterprise wide standard, they resulted in complete reduction of relevant revenue bleed when deployed.
Worked with the Global Due Diligence practice to develop an automated Due Diligence application that has been implemented at 70+ pursuits valued at $8 Billion USD and resulted in risk mitigation of $100M+ USD.
Created the CMO (Current Mode of Operation) Readiness Assessment service. It is a set of best practice activities that substantially de-risk both the Transition CMO takeover and transformation phases for IT Outsourcing customers. Minimum mitigating impact once completely rolled out is $10M USD / Year.
Created a new service offering to help harden and improve technical solutions and their associated delivery plans and cost models for large pursuits with contract values in excess of $50M USD. Since solution gaps are one of the top root causes of red accounts (due to delays, penalties and lost goodwill), the adoption rate of the service has exceeded original projections with benefits estimated to exceed $65M USD / Year.
Led development of the Cloud Assessment Toolkit. This is an industry first holistic solution by which data required to execute the outsourcing of customer Data Centers to cloud or traditional hosting facilities is collected into a purpose built data model, automatically assessed for completeness, validity and anomalies, and then made available to all stakeholders via a collaborative toolset for project planning, execution and governance. Data from the first 85 deployments of the Toolkit indicates an average ROI of 800% based on the ability to differentiate HPE from competitors during presales with a solution based on an objective data assessment and the ability to track project delivery based on an accurate, and shared view of the current and future IT Landscape.
Awarded two patents for inventions related to Data Center Outsourcing and complex IT transformations.


Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Global IT   (10/2010 - 01/2012)
Houston, TX, Texas
Strategist, Global High Availability & Disaster Recovery (HA/DR)
Developed high level design for cloud based disaster recovery.
Provided Cloud and AWS subject Matter Expertise to leadership in the early days of Cloud and IaaS.
Developed a HA/DR Performance Forecasting system which automatically predicts performance of an IT Organization’s HA/DR framework across the corporate application portfolio and provides Operations teams with the data needed to conduct targeted Disaster recovery rehearsals instead of the traditionally disruptive recurring outage drills. With 1,850 business applications under HP-IT management, implementation of this system resulted in annual savings of 86 FTEs across IT and other business units.
Built a quantifiable model (score-carding) for Application portfolio rationalization program.
Supported migration of mission critical applications to the next generation business continuity platforms.
Patented invention related to the optimization of High Availability and Disaster Recovery Rehearsals.
Patented invention of design patterns that can impact availability and DR performance of an application.
Developed the three year roadmap for Business Continuity.


ANDROWAVE INC.   (11/2008 - 11/2011)
Houston, Texas
Co-Founder
Established 2008, startup developing innovative mobile solutions for the iPhone and Android Platforms. Brand dissolved in 2011 due to acquisition.
As Co-founder, my role was to Brainstorm and innovate new ideas in the mobile domain. Coordinate and oversee development of the ideas with teams in the USA and South East Asia.
Architected the first H1N1 tracking application for any major mobile platform. The core technology was transferred under an exclusive license after the application was launched.
Architected Vote America, an application that allowed single-click voting for television programming that requires audience participation. Licensed for major Programming including American Idol and Dancing with the Stars. Technology transfer agreement with VMIX Media Inc. to extend to other reality TV brands.
Designed and developed SMS Search, a highly rated application that delivers search results and other information (stocks, flight status, calculations, price checks, translation services etc.) via SMS texts.
Designed SMS Art / Text Monster, a top 10 paid communications application that allows the subscriber to send high quality greetings via SMS, MMS and tweets.
Established first iOS developer meetup to improve the experience of developing and publishing applications to Apple’s iTunes marketplace.
Advertising Servicing agreements with top AD agencies to serve location based and content relevant advertisements on Androwave Inc. applications.
Selected by Orange (French Telecom Group) to be featured on the Orange Application Store.


Snowflake Mobile   (02/2009 - 02/2011)
Valencia, California
Chief Architect, Senior Vice President of Operations
Mobile Solutions Startup later acquired by a major media software publisher and NextWave Interactive Media.
Primary visionary and architect of the product line and contributing to other critical aspects of the operations including R&D, Sales, Marketing, Partner Network, Investor Relations and reporting to the Board of Directors.
Envisioned and architected the first platform agnostic mobile app IDE for iPhone and Android with launch revenues of $10 million in initial licensing and $6 million in ongoing subscription fees.
Important innovator in mobile Advertising by introducing new Ad formats previously not available in Mobile Applications including Word, Splash, Embedded and Product Placement Ads.
Designed technology to attach location based coupons to Ads and to control their redemption.
Designed a Platform for tech savvy customers to customize their Enterprise mobile apps.
Architected a Vertical Integration Platform for use by resellers in niche markets to offer mobile apps.
Module for Ad Order Entry, Production, Fulfillment, Analytics and Social Network integration
Patents on several technologies including the ability to attach audio clips to mobile advertisements.


Neasi-Weber International   (06/2007 - 02/2011)
Valencia, California
CIO, SVP Systems & Technical Services
Established 1977, oldest and largest supplier of CRM, ERP and R/M solutions to the Publishing Industry.
Joined the company as a Software Engineer in 1996 and held several technical and leadership roles over the next 15 years.
Key accomplishments include:
industry-wide annual reduction of 500M+ sheets of paper with mobile solutions;
Big-Data Products and Services that added $10M+ to annual revenue;
offshore operations in India and Pakistan;
PCI and PII compliance across portfolio;
DevOps culture;
CI/CD for 10X increase in agility;
Source Code Management for 20M lines of code resulting in 18% drop in new issues and 11% productivity increase;
REST API stack for all core functions;
SOX Compliance solution;
SaaS offering for flagship CRM, ERP and Business Intelligence products;


E. A. Juffali & Bros.   (05/1992 - 05/2010)
Jeddah, Makkah Saudi Arabia
Emerging Technology Consultant
Fortune X Middle East.
Largest Privately held corporation in the region.
Evaluate emerging technologies for the largest commercial enterprise in the Middle East from the perspective of internal adoption and equity investment.


Neasi-Weber International   (09/2005 - 06/2007)
Valencia, California
Chief Architect, Director of Technical Services
Architected new Big Data and compliance offerings while managing the IT infrastructure organization, offshore operations and all Engineering teams


Neasi-Weber International   (02/2004 - 09/2005)
Valencia, California
Director of Systems
Managed Technology infrastructure team; Provided DBA and Advanced R&D services to internal and external clients; established the corporate offshore operations;


Neasi-Weber International   (09/2000 - 02/2004)
Valencia, California
Systems Manager
Managed Technology infrastructure team, Enterprise DBAs, UNIX admins and systems programmers.


Neasi-Weber International   (01/1999 - 09/2000)
Valencia, California
Enterprise Database Administrator and Architect
Led a team of DBAs that provided Oracle Certified services to both internal and external clients.


Neasi-Weber International   (06/1996 - 01/1999)
Valencia, California
Software Engineer
Software development;
Systems analysis & design;
Oracle DBA;
Sun engineer


ACA Technology   (06/1996 - 12/1998)
Houston, Texas
Co-Founder
Responsible for turnkey IT solutions at the top 50 law firms in the Gulf coast.
Typical project included wired networks, Windows Clients & Servers, Imaging devices, Document management solutions, Time tracking and billing software, enterprise messaging, backup and recovery, remote management, Law related tools and services, 365x24x7 SLA, Business continuity planning and training.


Houston Chronicle, Circulation Systems   (08/1995 - 06/1996)
Houston, Texas
Software Engineer
Pilot emerging technologies in support of modernizing the legacy mainframe based circulation system that managed 5 Billion Online transactions for the third-largest newspaper in the US.


Siemens AG, Healthcare Solutions   (06/1995 - 06/1996)
Jeddah, Makkah Saudi Arabia
Software Engineer
Account Receivables System modernization for the Middle East Healthcare solutions division. This was a mission critical system that processed $2 Billion+ in transactions.

Education:
BAUER COLLEGE OF BUSINESS - UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON   (1996)
Bachelor of Business Administration, Management Information Systems


Languages:
Arabic
English  (Fluent) 
Hindi  (Fluent) 
Punjabi  (Fluent) 
Urdu  (Fluent) 


Core Competencies:
Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery planning
Budgeting, Cost Management, P&L
Cloud, Cloud Native Development
Compliance (PCI etc.)
Corporate Communications
Creative Team Leadership
CTO
Data Center Migration
Data Security (HA & DR)
Demand Management & Project Prioritization
DevOps and CI/CD
Effective Decision Making & Risk Management
Establishing Standards
Information Management & Business Intelligence
Infrastructure Management
International Projects
License Optimization
Mobile Applications & Solutions
New Product Launch
Off shoring & Outsourcing
Open Source & Creative Commons solutions
Performance Measurement
Product Management
Program Management
Sales Collateral & Support
Software Development Life Cycle
Steering Committee & PMO
Strategic Planning
Transition & Transformation
Vendor Relations
XaaS (Containers-as-a-Service, IaaS, PaaS)

Additional Profiles:
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/mudasserzaheer


